hey I'm syvia Perez I'm the founder of
adcon conversion.com and in this video I
want to talk about if you should invest
in LinkedIn Spotlight ads are they worth
it we're going to cover the pros and
cons what are Spotlight ads and
everything you need to know to be able
to make an informed decision so let's
start with the basics what are LinkedIn
Spotlight ads so I'm here in the
LinkedIn ads manager and I have a
drafted LinkedIn ads uh Spotlight ads
here for you to see so simply put the
LinkedIn Spotlight ads look like this
they are Dynamic ad type meaning uh the
profile image of the person will change
depending on who sees it and you can do
some pretty clever things with Spotlight
ads for example uh you can see here I I
added a custom image here of me with a
heart eyes emoji instead of my face so
by default you'll have like a company
logo here and then the person so there's
different ways you can spruce up
Spotlight ads to be able to make it more
effective and resonate and stand out so
for us here at ad conversion we teach BB
marketers how to skill paid ads with
free course is taught by the world's
best practitioners so if you want to
learn ads for B2B we are definitely a
place to go so you can see here how I'm
trying to speak to our IP and I'm saying
learn how with free courses top by the
best and it kind of plays into the ad
description so this is the ad
description here on the top and then
this is the actual ad headline you can
also add Dynamic um parameters as well
into Spotlight ads so for example if I
do uh first name you can also do this
and it'll automatically pull in the
person's name which is pretty cool so
you've got here Jane uh I believe all of
the standard parameters work for
spotlight ads just like it would for uh
a conversation ad so you can see here I
put company name and it would
automatically pull in the company name
as well so you get to leverage those
parameters as well with your your combo
or your Spotlight ad copy which is
pretty cool so all in all this is what a
spotlight ad looks like I'm sure you've
seen them so when you're actually on
LinkedIn where you'll you'll typically
see Spotlight ads is uh when you're on
your LinkedIn feed you'll see them down
here on the bottom right and you can use
Spotlight ads in different ways so you
can see in this case they're using it to
uh show job openings uh you can do it in
my case to drive conversion you can use
it uh to grow your company page a lot of
different use cases on how you can
actually use Spotlight ads so to dive
more into this topic I actually put
together a whole article on LinkedIn
Spotlight ads on the E version.com site
which I'll link in the resources below
and I want to kind of just piggyback off
this article as a reference as we go
through this video so we kind of talked
about LinkedIn Spotlight ads uh
character-wise you don't have a lot of
opportunity 50 character headlines 255
characters for your company name and
then you can put in a an image that is
300X 250 so there's not much you need
from a creative perspective right it's
only this 300X 250 image I do not
recommend adding the background image
because if you do it's going to
significantly uh reduce your ability to
really Leverage The Format so when you
do that it gets rid of the the person 's
profile image and in my opinion the the
advantage of Spotlight ads is the
personalization so leveraging the
parameters in addition to the person's
image uh is really where you can drive
more attention and get a click now when
it comes to Spotlight ads these are the
four primary reasons to consider
investing in this format uh reason
number one is 74% lower cost per
thousand Impressions so we analyze $1.7
million in spend by ad types for our our
agency where we run ads for top SAS
companies and we found an average CPM of
$523 which is 74% lower than single
image ads so just to kind of show up the
visual here you can see this is the
average CPM by ad type that we found
after studying our data set and no
surprise conversation ads have the the
greatest one but you can see Spotlight
ads is all the way at the bottom here it
is the lowest in comparison with these
other AD types so
$523 for 1,000 in Impressions that is
ridiculously cheap and that is the
primary reason to even consider running
Spotlight ads in the first place is the
ability to buy all these impressions for
a really low low cost uh you can compare
that with single image ads at
$20.72 so if you're looking for a really
lowcost ad format to be able to drive a
lot of Impressions and visibility and
stay in front of your audiences that's
where I think Spotlight ads can actually
be helpful not that it'll be a game
changer but it's just an additional
impression at a really uh cheap cost the
second advantage of using uh Spotlight
ads is increased ad recall because
you're getting all those impressions for
such a cheap cost you know it's really
easy to rack up a large frequency and
it' be okay given the fact that uh you
know you're going to have so many of
these Impressions at a low cost and
Spotlight ads are only placed on these
very specific placements so having
frequencies of 10 15 20 isn't as
detrimental to your brand as when you
have a frequency of 15 10 20 with a
video or an image or or something like
that because it's more prominent and in
the user feed Spotlight ads for the most
part kind of go unnoticed uh which
allows you to drive all these
Impressions just kind of stay top of
Mind in the back of someone's head for a
really low cost now moving on the third
reason to invest in Spotlight ads is
creative effort it's really low creative
effort right so you only need a 300X 250
banner and assuming if you were using
your company logo then you don't need
anything and it's just text in my case I
added this Custom Image that I created
on canva with a 300X 250 Dimension
really easily to be able to stand out
and be more unique in comparison to
everyone else uh but it's super easy
right it's not like an image ad that you
need you know 1 1200 X 1200 or 1200 X
628 or uh um you know something like a
video ad or something like that so it's
a really cheap easy uh place to get an
additional touch Point all right so now
let's talk about
some reasons you should not invest in
LinkedIn Spotlight ads so the primary
reason is the cost per click price so
you're going to get a lot of Impressions
really cheaply but when someone does
finally decide to click on your
Spotlight ad you are going to pay a
pretty price for it so when you look at
the average CPC by ad type we've got
here uh Spotlight ads in number one with
$7.93 on average in terms of cost per
click in comparison with all these other
AD types
so you know don't let this scare you
from Spotlight ads uh the the average
click the rate on Spotlight ads is
pretty abysmal um like less than less
than half a percent it's it's really
really really low so don't think that
you're going to get a lot of clicks from
Spotlight ads it's kind of not the point
it's like you can drive clicks from
Spotlight ads which is great but the
real reason you even do Spotlight ads is
for additional Impressions and again
it's just additional Impressions
additional mind share at a really really
low cost but just know that when you do
get the click you're only charge per
click and when you do pay per click you
are going to pay uh a hefty price for it
so you can see the average here all
right second reason you should invest in
Spotlight ads or you shouldn't invest in
Spotlight ads is if you want to generate
the most conversion so like I mentioned
uh Spotlight ads have really bad
engagement rates it's really really low
given multitude of factors uh number one
is the limited availability of
placements right they only render very
specific spots number two is the size of
the placement look how small this grid
is in comparison to a image ad here from
Salesforce like if we just take a look
at just in terms of real estate that the
image ad from Salesforce takes versus
the spotlight ad it's dramatically
different right uh in addition to that
it's a very limited placement as well in
the sense of it can only render one
company at a time in this placement
right versus here they can render many
different companies here at a time right
so here's another ad from from notion as
an example so the these multitude of
factors goes into Spotlight ads having a
really low engagement rate okay moving
on if you're trying to drive the most
traffic to your website do not consider
Spotlight ads like I mentioned it's not
it's not what it's good at right
Spotlight ads is good at getting a lot
of Impressions really cost uh really
cost effectively it's not good at
driving a lot of traffic so if that's
your primary aim I definitely wouldn't
consider Spotlight ads and then finally
I would not consider investing in
Spotlight ads if you're not already
investing in other AD types so Spotlight
ads is a supplementary ad type it's
something that should go into your
LinkedIn ads mix not as a primary source
but to just kind of complement the other
big three right so if you're not already
doing image ads or video ads or
conversation ads I would start there and
then add Spotlight ads in the future
especially if you want to just drive
additional impressions for a really low
cost cuz it can allow you to do that for
really cheaply now three strategies
worth testing with Spotlight ads if you
are considering using it number one and
the most effective use in my personal
opinion and experience is remarketing
the combination of being able to use
Spotlight ads for that really lowcost uh
CPM around
$528 makes it really powerful to stay in
front of a very specific audience so who
better than people who already engage
with you so they've been to your website
they've been to your company page they
been to past events you've hosted uh
they existing customers they're in your
new email list you name it you can
create a remarketing list of these
individuals and I actually created a
whole video on how to build a multi
channel retargeting strategy I'll link
it here for you but basically you can
build this audience and then you can use
Spotlight ads to just stay in front of
these individuals and if they do happen
to click through your Spotlight ads well
hey guess what somebody's engaged with
you before so you're willing to pay that
$7 click on the high end assuming it's
the average uh second reason to consider
running Spotlight ads in terms of a
strategy to test is company page growth
so you could use LinkedIn Spotlight ads
to grow your LinkedIn company page so
instead of saying you know learn more go
to my website whatever the case might be
is you can drive these individuals to
your LinkedIn company page to try to
drive more followers more subscriber
growth this could be another cool use
case for you in terms of strategies to
test with LinkedIn Spotlight ads and
then finally is job recruitment so
LinkedIn Spotlight ads are really
flexible in terms of the different
bidding strategies available and they
are available as an ad type if you use
the job applicants um type in terms of
the campaign objective so if you're
using job applicants and you need to
drive opportunities to your uh your
different job posts on LinkedIn you can
use Spotlight ads and the cool thing
with using Spotlight ads for job
recruitment is given the fact that
you're able to create that
personalization right and dynamically
pull in the person's profile image you
can create some cool Spotlight ads to
try to create a more personalized
message to that person specifically who
might be looking for a role that you're
hiring for so all in all should you use
LinkedIn Spotlight ads it really depends
on you like I mentioned don't consider
using this ad type if you're not already
using all the other big three if you're
expecting LinkedIn Spotlight ads to come
in and just drive you know million
dollars in pipeline it really doesn't
work that way it's not that strong of an
ad type to be able to do that I would
only ever consider running it really in
remarketing and after like some very
specific Target account lists or if I
wanted to do job Recruitment and try to
drive more awareness to my job posting
otherwise you're better off with the
other AD types but I hope this was
helpful it's definitely a unique ad type
that most people don't consider and if
you do meet these qualifications and
you're considering it and you want to
get thousands of impressions for a
fraction of a cost then I think it's
definitely worthwhile I hope this video
is valuable if you want to learn more
about LinkedIn ads then check out the
videos that we have here in this
playlist around LinkedIn and if you want
to learn more about this article that I
was going through I will link it in the
description box down below where you can
learn more about Spotlight ads and if
you're interested in learning how to
scale B2B advertising campaigns then
definitely check us out at ad
conversion.com we've got courses on
different topics from great
practitioners teaching you how to run
successful ads for B2B and without
further Ado I'll see you in the next
video